This dream began to form in elementary school, although at the time I was unaware of it. It started when I wanted to learn how to make websites. I learned how to make websites initially through <a href="http://neopets.com/" target="_blank">Neopets</a>, which gave every user a web page for themselves and one for each pet they owned. They had basic tutorials on how to create websites using tables (before CSS really took off/existed). I spent hours upon hours fiddling with my Neopets websites. I then started experimenting with free hosting platforms and I found more tutorials on the web, eventually teaching myself CSS. I continued to make websites off and on all through middle school and high school. I taught myself Javascript as well. In many ways, my exposure to Neopets helped me determine the  field of study I would pursue in college.

Disney was also a major source of inspiration for me. While I had always loved their movies, I had never really had an interest in animation as a career. However, after a few trips to Disneyland and Walt Disney World, I realized that I would love to be a Disney Imagineer. I didn&rsquo;t really have any interest in Mechanical or Electrical Engineering though, and so I was at a loss for what I would want to do. I then discovered Computer Science, a field I had never really thought about and more or less took for granted. I was able to take a programming course in my junior year of high school and realized quite quickly that I enjoyed programming. So, I entered college with the dream of becoming a Disney Imagineer and a Computer Scientist.

I proceeded through my college degree with enthusiasm and for the most part enjoyed the classes I took. I also enrolled in the Technology, Arts, and Media(TAM) Minor. TAM has been a great opportunity for me. While I did enjoy my computer science courses, I loved doing all of the design work for tam a lot more. One of my most favorite classes, Digital Media 2, gave me the opportunity to meld my computer science programming skills with my design skills. I made generative art programs via <a href="https://processing.org/" target="_blank">Processing</a> and also  got to experiment with some data visualization.

If anything, the only thing both my major and minor have lacked is a sense of true purpose. Making "cool apps" and "great designs" for class has been a lot of fun, but I wanted my work to mean more.

Specifically, I want to apply my skills and talents to creating new web and mobile apps for children. I believe the power of play is often underestimated in today&rsquo;s society. Free play, especially, encourages children to be creative and find solutions to difficult problems. Not only is this essential for a healthy and fun childhood, but it is also imperative for the prosperity of the human populace.

Web and mobile apps are now intrinsically tied to culture and day-to-day living. In many ways, tablets like the iPad have become the new babysitter stand-in, taking the place of the television. Just as this use of television spawned new networks and shows dedicated to children, app stores are filled with apps and games for younger audiences.

This provides an unprecedented opportunity to create new experiences that encourage free play, problem solving, and creativity. Not only that, but apps can be designed for children and their parents to play together. Instead of using the tablet or phone as the babysitter, parents can use it as a tool to spend quality time with their kids. They can encourage their kids&rsquo; interests and dreams.

College provided me the opportunity to explore new technologies for web app development. I used preprocessors and template engines to create this website. Styling is written in LESS, pages are templated using Jade, and much of the content is written in Markdown (including this page). In addition the site uses JQuery and basic Javascript for different functions, and employs CSS flex-boxes for layout.

But web applications will only reach part of an audience. To successfully make my dream a reality, I need to also join the mobile app development world. I have much less experience in mobile app development itself. However, I am familiar with and often use many different programming languages, including C, C++, and Python. I have also used languages such as Java, Scala, and C# to a lesser extent. I know the basic principles of Object Oriented Design and have learned many techniques to write efficient programs. While my skills are not specialized towards game and app development, I have the necessary building blocks with which to create any multitude of programs.

But beyond any specific skill set, I have a heart for children. I know that without influences like Disney, Harry Potter, Nintendo, and others, I would not be who I am today. Play and creativity are essential to nurture the dreams of the future into existence. The influence of these on my own childhood have allowed me to reach for new heights. I want to provide that experience for as many children as possible.

Currently, many games for children fall into two categories: educational or free play. Educational games provide supplements to basic education, while free play games give children space to create and explore on their own. While I find both genres to be important, I want to help design new apps, games, and experiences that help bring these two genres together. Games should encourage free play while teaching children valuable knowledge. In many ways this is like older Disney films: the content was focused on children, and teaching children important values, but the children were never pandered to. Children should learn things organically, via exploration. For example, instead of having a game focus on math skills, I would like to create a game that intuitively teaches math as a byproduct. I remember learning to solve logic problems by playing games like Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego. Perhaps a bit outdated now, but I think it was on the right track for how games can use education as a a fluid in-game mechanic instead of making the purpose of the game to learn geography. However, I think games should include more aspects of free play. The concept of the &ldquo;Toy Box&rdquo; has come to the digital age with games like Disney Infinity. Children form their own games and adventures within the game; there is no limit to what they can build.

Of course, games cannot be both 100% free-play while still having some semblance of structure. Part of my goal is to find the right balance between these two different play styles to make an engaging game with immense replay value.

Games don&rsquo;t just teach children how to have fun; they impart important skills values. Games allow players to retry as many times as they want, teaching children (and adults) that not only is it okay to fail, but failure is not permanent and will lead to success as long as you are willing to put in the effort. Games teach players quick thinking and how to multitask. Many games now encourage teamwork and leadership as well. These immeasurable benefits can help shape kids&rsquo; lives and better prepare them for the real world as well. 

I am looking for companies that can help me achieve my dreams. I want to work in an inclusive environment that understands the importance of work and play, that encourages each and every person to pursue their dreams through the work they do. Such an environment would be perfect for thinking about the future generations and providing top-notch quality content that encourages and teaches kids.